Adding fixed.md as well as 2 image files:  position-fixed-example.png, position-static-example.png (#5500)
Codecademy/codepedia-content: content/css/concepts/position/terms/fixed/fixed.md

---
Title: 'fixed'
Description: 'Positions an HTML element of a webpage by taking that element out of the normal flow of the document and pinning it to a specified position where it will remain fixed in place, even while scrolling the page.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Design'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Attributes'
  - 'CSS'
  - 'Design'
  - 'Development'
  - 'Elements'
  - 'Properties'
  - 'Programming'
  - 'Responsive'
  - 'Static Site'
  - 'Style'
  - 'Syntax'
  - 'UI'
  - 'UX'
  - 'Values'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-css'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
  - 'paths/full-stack-engineer-career-path'

> ---

Reviewer: How about, "Positions an element relative to the viewport, removing it from the document flow and keeping it fixed during page scrolling."

Positions an [html](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/html) element of a webpage by taking that element out of the normal flow of the document and pinning it to a specified [position](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/position) where it will remain **fixed** in place, even while scrolling the page.

## Syntax
## `position: fixed;`

An element with a **fixed** position will be positioned relative to the viewport or the html element. In other words, it is fixed relative to the document it self. 

> >Note: This differs from [absolute](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/position/absolute) positioning which is positioned relative to its closest ancestor/parent element whose position is also set to a value of [relative](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/position/relative) or **absolute** (a non-static position).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: This differs from [absolute](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/position/absolute) positioning which is positioned relative to its closest ancestor/parent element whose position is also set to a value of [relative](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/position/relative) or **absolute** (a non-static position).
```

### Bottom, Left, Right, and Top
As with **absolute** and **relative** positioning, once we have positioned our **fixed** element relative to the viewport, we can manipulate its location using the position properties: 

* [bottom](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/position/bottom)

* [left](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/position/left)

* [right](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/position/right)

* [top](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/position/top)

> 

Reviewer: This can be removed as in this entry we will speak about `fixed` in CSS position

## Example
 
### HTML
```html

> <!DOCTYPE html>
> <html>
>   <head>
>     <meta lang="UTF-8">
>     <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
>     <title>Fixed Postion</title>
>     <link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" type="text/css">
> 
>   </head>
>   <body>
>     <nav class="fixed">
>       <h1 class="content">Hello World!</h1>
>     </nav>
>   </nav>
>   </body>    
> </html>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta lang="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>Fixed Position</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" type="text/css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <nav class="fixed">
      <h1 class="content">Hello World!</h1>
    </nav>
  </body>    
</html>
```

Reviewer: one extra </nav>  was present in your code

```

> In the code block (above) the nav element with the is given the fixed class in **HTML**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In the code block above, the `nav` element is given the class `fixed` in the HTML.
```

### CSS

```css
html {
  box-sizing: border-box;
  background-color: black;
}

nav.fixed {
  display: inline-block;
  height: 80px;
  width: 100%;
  position: fixed;
  top: 50px;
  left: 100px;
  background-color: white;
  border: 4px solid red;
}
```

In the code block (above) the nav element with the *class of fixed* has its position property set to **fixed** in [CSS](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css) as well as its **top** and **left** properties with values of 50px and 100px respectively.
This will render in the browser as shown in the image (below).

> ![Image of a fixed nav element in the browser window/viewport.]("https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/"position-fixed-example.png "CSS for the Fixed property")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Image of a fixed nav element in the browser window/viewport.](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/position-fixed-example.png)
```

> Here (above) we see that the nav element has been taken out of the flow of the document and as with our **CSS** example (above), the nav element has been moved 50px from the top (which will move the nav element down 50px) and 100px from the left (which will move the nav element to the right 100px). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the code above, we see that the `nav` element has been taken out of the document flow. As shown in our CSS example, the nav element has been moved 50px from the top (moving it down by 50px) and 100px from the left (moving it right by 100px).
```

> >Note: Even though we have set our width property to 100%, the nav element is now out of the normal flow of the document and is overflowing the right side of the viewport.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: Although the `width` property is set to 100%, the nav element is removed from the normal flow of the document and positioned 100px from the left, which may cause it to extend beyond the right side of the viewport depending on the viewport width and the element's total width (including padding and borders).
```

>  If the nav element were to have the **position** property set to a value of [static](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/position/static) (default position value), the nav element would be in situ (within its original default position) and it would be flush against the top/left corner of the viewport (as seen in the example below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `nav` element had the `position` property set to [`static`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/position/static) (the default value), it would remain in its default position, flush against the top-left corner of the viewport.
```

> ![Image of a static nav element in the browser window/viewport.]("https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/"position-static-example.png "CSS for the Fixed property")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Image of a static nav element in the browser window/viewport.]("https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/position-static-example.png)
```

## Codebyte Example 

### HTML
```codebyte/html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
    <head>
        <meta lang="UTF-8">
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
        <title>Fixed Postion</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="static-style.css" type="text/css">
    </head>
    <body>
        <nav class="fixed">
            <h1 class="content">Hello World!</h1>
        </nav>
    </nav>
    </body>    
</html>
```

### CSS
```codebyte/css
html {
    box-sizing: border-box;
    background-color: black;
}

nav.fixed {
    display: inline-block;
    height: 80px;
    width: 100%;
    position: fixed;
    top: 50px;
    left: 100px;
    background-color: white;
    z-index: 3;
    border: 4px solid red;
}

> ```

Reviewer: Codebyte examples are not needed for CSS program, so this needs to be removed
